[title]
undefined

[intro]
Book of Commandments sections Chapter 17, Chapter 18, Chapter 19, Chapter 20, Chapter 21

[original chapter]
undefined

[verses]
CHAPTER XVII.<br>1 A Revelation to Oliver Cowdery, given in Manchester, New-York, April 6, 1830.

BEHOLD I speak unto you, Oliver, a few words.

2 Behold thou art blessed, and art under no condemnation.

3 But beware of pride, lest thou shouldst enter into temptation.

4 Make known thy calling unto the church, and also before the world; and thy heart shall be opened to preach the truth from henceforth and forever. Amen.

CHAPTER XVIII.<br>1 A Revelation to Hyrum Smith, given in Manchester, New-York, April 6, 1830.

BEHOLD I speak unto you, Hyrum, a few words:

2 For thou also art under no condemnation, and thy heart is opened, and thy tongue loosed;

3 And thy calling is to exhortation, and to strengthen the church continually.

4 Wherefore thy duty is unto the church forever; and this because of thy family. Amen.

CHAPTER XIX.<br>1 A Revelation to Samuel Smith, given in Manchester, New-York, April 6, 1830.

BEHOLD I speak a few words unto you, Samuel:

2 For thou also art under no condemnation, and thy calling is to exhortation, and to strengthen the church.

3 And thou art not as yet called to preach before the world. Amen.

CHAPTER XX.<br>1 A Revelation to Joseph Smith Sr., the father of Joseph, given in Manchester, New-York, April 6, 1830.

BEHOLD I speak a few words unto you, Joseph:

2 For thou also art under no condemnation, and thy calling is to exhortation, and to strengthen the church.

3 And this is thy duty from henceforth and forever. Amen.

CHAPTER XXI.<br>1 A Revelation to Joseph (Knight Sr.,) given in Manchester, New-York, April 6, 1830.

BEHOLD I manifest unto you by these words, that you must take up your cross, in the which you must pray vocally before the world, as well as in secret, and in your family, and among your friends, and in all places.

2 And behold it is your duty to unite with the true church, and give your language to exhortation continually, that you may receive the reward of the laborer. Amen.