[title]
undefined

[intro]
Book of Commandments sections Chapter 31, Chapter 32, Chapter 33

[original chapter]
undefined

[verses]
CHAPTER XXXI.<br>A Revelation to David Whitmer, given in Fayette, New-York, September, 1830.

BEHOLD I say unto you, David, that you have feared man and have not relied upon me for strength, as you ought:

2 But your mind has been on the things of the earth more than on the things of me, your Maker, and the ministry whereunto you have been called; and you have not given heed unto my Spirit, and to those who were set over you, but have been persuaded by those whom I have not commanded:

3 Wherefore you are left to inquire for yourself, at my hand, and ponder upon the things which you have received.

4 And your home shall be at your father's house, until I give unto you further commandments.

5 And you shall attend to the ministry in the church, and before the world, and in the regions round about. Amen.

CHAPTER XXXII,<br>A Revelation to Peter Whitmer Jr., given in Fayette, New-York, September, 1830.

BEHOLD I say unto you, Peter, that you shall take your journey with your brother Oliver Cowdery, for the time has come, that it is expedient in me, that you shall open your mouth to declare my gospel:

2 Therefore, fear not but give heed unto the words and advice of your brother, which he shall give you.

3 And be you afflicted in all his afflictions, ever lifting up your heart unto me in prayer, and faith, for his and your deliverance:

4 For I have given unto him to build up my church among your brethren, the Lamanites.

5 And none have I appointed to be over him in the church, except it is his brother Joseph.

6 Wherefore give heed unto these things and be diligent in keeping my commandments, and you shall be blessed unto eternal life. Amen.

CHAPTER XXXIII.<br>A Revelation to John Whitmer, given in Fayette, New-York, September, 1830.

BEHOLD I say unto you my servant, John, that thou shalt commence from this time forth to proclaim my gospel, as with the voice of a trump.

2 And your labor shall be at your brother Philip's Philip Burroughs's, and in that region round about:

3 Yea, wherever you can be heard, until I command you to go from hence.

4 And your whole labor shall be in my Zion, with all your soul, from henceforth; yea, you shall ever open your mouth in my cause not fearing what man can do, for I am with you. Amen.